# PMMA-Additive-Induced-Active-Layer-Self-Assembly-in-Polymer-Solar-Cell

  Polymer solar cells show great potential as an alternative energy source because of their low cost, light weight and high flexibility compared to traditional silicon solar cells. Some exciting possibilities for this technology include printing of solar cells, energy-harvesting windows and LCDs. However, mass-production is currently unviable due to low cell efficiencies and excessive thinness in the active layer, which generates electricity from light. 
  
 The project therefore sought to increase active layer thickness and efficiency by adding a new polymer that created a more ideal ordered columnar structure. The polymer PMMA was dissolved within the standard active layer polymer blend. The solutions were then coated onto glass using the spin coating method. The thickness of these active layers was determined using ellipsometry and their ability to absorb light was tested using ultraviolet-visible spectroscopy. Furthermore, the structure of the polymer active layers was studied by using an atomic force microscope to determine the presence of columnar structure. The device efficiencies were then measured to test for improvement in actual performance. The experiments showed that the PMMA additive greatly increased the active layer thickness, important for making polymer solar cells manufacturable, while also improving efficiency. 
	 
The ratio of generated charge to light on the cell specifically was found to increase by 68%, which was hypothesized to be due to reflections of light within the active layer against the PMMA, thus increasing absorbance. This explanation was then confirmed with a mathematical model simulated in C++. In conclusion, our project demonstrated a robust method for making polymer solar cells scalable and more efficient, which may one day lead to mass-produced, low-cost, ultra-portable solar power.
